# major-minor-prosody-study
This repository holds the auditory and visual stimuli used in the "rating-task" and the "shape-task" reported in "Sensitivity to musical scale and speech prosody both depend on sensitivity to changes in pitch," Ho, Hickok &amp; Chubb.  The abstract from this paper reads as follows:

Is sensitivity to musical scale related to sensitivity to speech prosody?  To address this question, Experiment 1 tested listeners in the "3-task" (requiring listeners to classify tone sequences as major or minor) and also in two prosody tasks:  in the "Rating-task," listeners rated the similarity of the accent patterns of pairs of trisyllabic nonsense words; in the "Shape-task," listeners selected the visual curves that matched the pitch contours of trisyllabic nonsense words. 
With Years-music-training held constant, prosody-task and 3-task performance exhibited a strong partial correlation implying performance in these tasks depends on a common factor that is largely immune to musical training.
Experiment 2 probed the nature of this underlying factor.  Listeners were tested in the 3-task, the Shape-task, and a "roved pitch-difference" (RPD) task in which the listener heard (sequentially) two tones with frequencies f1 (drawn randomly from a large range) and f2, and judged whether f2 was higher or lower than f1.  Roughly 50% of listeners had RPD-task-thresholds greater than a quarter-tone.  Strikingly, nearly all of these listeners performed near chance in both the Shape-task and 3-task suggesting that roughly half of all listeners are impaired in discriminating major from minor musical stimuli and also in processing speech prosody due to low sensitivity to changes in pitch. 
